#README.md

This attack-analysis project explores the landscape of cybersecurity by examining how an attack vector can relate to mitre’s Common Weakness Enumerations (CWEs). A file of simulated attack vectors is compared to each of the 11 tactics from attack.mitre.org. A tactic is a high-level representation of an attack behavior, and each tactic can be broken down into many techniques that an attacker may use to compromise a target system. For each attack, the 11 tactics are ranked based on how similar they are to the attack vector using the Jaccard Similarity Index ranking system (as defined in jsi_rationale.txt). Dependencies between tactics are represented in a dependency graph, and mappings from tactics to technical impacts from CWEs are represented in an association graph using the JGraphT library. These mappings are explained in Mapping Explanation.doc. The program traverses the dependency and association graphs from the highest ranked tactic to determine which technical impacts are most at risk of being exploited by this tactic. Each technical impact has several CWEs associated with it; thus, an attack vector can be analyzed to determine which CWEs are most vulnerable to a given attack. 

In order to run the project, the file of tactics, file of attack vectors to analyze, and [optional] ranking method should be supplied as arguments respectively. The tactics and attack files should be in csv format. The ranking method should be one of jsi, weighted, techniques, or all. For instance, the following command could be used on the command-line: java AttackAnalysis tactics.csv attackmectors.csv jsi. The ranking of tactics and CWE breakdown for each attack is written to a file in the attack-analysis directory. Upon running, a visualization of the association and dependency graphs is also displayed in a Swing application. The user can click on any vertex, whether it be a Tactic or a Technical Impact, to see which CWEs are associated with it.